.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Gordon D. Carrie
.\" All rights reserved
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.11 $ $Date: 2009/12/08 21:01:39 $
.\"
.TH geog 3 "geography application"
.SH NAME
geog \- geography application
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgeog\fP \fIgeog_command\fP [\fIgeog_command_options ...\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgeog\fP application calculates distances and angles on Earth's surface.

Angles are measured in radians by default, or if environment variable
\fBANGLE_UNIT\fP is set to \fBRADIAN\fP.  Angles are measured in degrees if
environment variable \fBANGLE_UNIT\fP is set to \fBDEGREE\fP.

The \fIgeog_command\fP argument determines \fBgeog\fP's behavior.
\fBgeog_command\fP must be one of the following.
.TP
\fBgeog\fP \fBlonr\fP \fIlon\fP \fIreflon\fP 
Computes a longitude equivalent to \fIlon\fP in a longitude domain
centered about \fIreflon\fP.  It prints a value that equals
\fIlon\fP\ +\ i\ *\ pi for some integer i, and is in the interval
[\fIreflon\fP\ -\ pi / 2,\ \fIreflon\fP\ +\ pi / 2).
.TP
\fBgeog\fP \fBlatn\fP \fIlat\fP
Computes the principle latitude corresponding to \fIlat\fP.  It prints
the latitude reached by going \fIlat\fP radians north of the Equator.
.TP
\fBgeog\fP \fBdist\fP \fIlon1\fP \fIlat1\fP \fIlon2\fP \fIlat2\fP
Computes the great circle distance from (\fIlon1\fP,\ \fIlat1\fP) to
(\fIlon2\fP,\ \fIlat2\fP).
.TP
\fBgeog\fP \fBaz\fP \fIlon1\fP \fIlat1\fP \fIlon2\fP \fIlat2\fP
Computes the azimuth from (\fIlon1\fP,\ \fIlat1\fP) to (\fIlon2\fP,\ \fIlat2\fP).
.TP
\fBgeog\fP \fBstep\fP [\fIlon\fP \fIlat\fP \fIdir\fP \fIdist\fP]
Computes the longitude and latitude of the point in direction \fIdir\fP and
distance \fIdist\fP along a great circle from point (\fIlon\fP,\ \fIlat\fP).

If \fIlon\fP \fIlat\fP \fIdir\fP \fIdist\fP are not given on the command line,
values are read from standard input.  There will be one line of output for
every four values read in.
.TP
\fBgeog\fP \fBbeam_ht\fP \fIdistance\fP \fItilt\fP \fIearth_radius\fP
Computes the height attained after travelling distance \fIdistance\fP
along a beam at angle \fItilt\fP above horizontal, assuming Earth radius
\fIearth_radius\fP.  \fId\fP and \fIearth_radius\fP must use the same unit,
which will also be the unit of the result.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgeog_lib\fP (3), \fBprintf\fP (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
